Look, everyone, this is going to be the best problem of the course.
And if you really want to deep dive into Red Mask, then this is the problem for you, right?
So what else exist is why don't you just pause the video for a moment and try yourself at the very beginning?
Of course.
Continue to entertain.
So let's read the problem.
So consider the following problem.
There's an elevator with maximum vertex pull.
So I have upward legs given to me and people with nowhere to want to get from the ground floor to their
top floor.
What is the minimum number of lights needed if the people enter the elevator in an optimal order?
Basically.
I have some person over here.
Let's see.
Percent zero one, two, three, four.
And we have their bid rates, which are different.
Elevator has a fixed rate.
This is a maximum their elevator can carry and go to the top floor rate.
And what we want to do is we want to fit the people.
We want to fit these persons in the elevator in such a way that the minimum number of rights are taken
for them to reach to the top.
Isn't this a very interesting problem and it can be realistically applied rate somewhere.
Let's say the elevator is one and the lot of people want to go.
You can quickly apply this and ask them to go in a certain order.
Right.
Okay.
So what we can do here is I hope the problem statement is very clear.
So what is the brute force approach?
The brute force approach, as we all know for any.
For any DP or DP with bitmaps.
Wherever we apply, wherever we have these subsets, there are the basic approval approaches, the factorial
approach, right?
That means what I can do is I can try all possible five factorial options.
And out of all those five vector options of what example or two, this was an option
02432.
Right.
So let's see, this was one of those brute force factorial possibility.
So in this, what I can do is if I want to find out the minimum number of rights they will take to reach
the top because X is equal to 28 towards the weight of zero, it is to find what is the weight of one.
It is three, it is five, it is less than ten.
They can go in one lift.
Now, what is the weight of four?
It is six.
So now I'll just say okay, zero.
And when you go and for you weight you will go in the next trip because your weight is big, right?
Means if you if I combine zero one and four, they will have a total of 11, which is exceeding my total
weight of.
The.
Left.
Right.
The elevator.
So now we know now for will start again.
It will be six.
Then what is a rate of three?
It is five.
So again, here we have a problem later.
The weight of three is five.
Now three cannot go with four.
So now this is the second rate that we have done.
Now the weight of three is five and the weight of two is three.
So this is is eight.
So in three rates, if they go in this order, it's zero one, four, three, two, one.
If I want to test and take this solution in this order, trying all in factorial ways for all five factorial
weights and using this approach.
Let's start from first.
If the weight is greater than x break, say you will go in the next part and start from zero again.
In this way we can easily determine what is the minimum number of right rate.
So what is the complexity of the solution that I get here?
It is an factorial into n and factorial into n because and Victoria for all possible combinations and
for taking rate, finding our dominion number of rate by applying these bars.
Right.
So we know and victory in the end is too much for us because we are going on to do programming.
We want to do something in the best complexity.
It's possible rate in factorial is of course never the best, best complexity.
So now we will try to understand this how to use bit mask in this particular.
Solution laid out how well it is BP will be mask is not actually bird mask it is deep on subset.
Right.
And that's absurd.
Is optimizing with mass.
Correct.
So let's see how to break it down further.
So basically what we want to do is we want to find out the particular subset.
Right.
So yeah.
So we want to find out a particular subset.
So how do we find that particular subset?
Right.
So here.
Yeah.
So, again, we think that this should be in order in which the people can go, right.
So indirectly what we want is we want every one of them to reach every one of them to reach to the top.
So basically it should be a fourth subset of its observed content.
One, two, three, four, five.
So every one of them will reach to the top and if this was the order.
So basically, we want the particular order over here.
Right.
So how then how can we get an order?
How can we figure out audiences?
So for this particular F of something, what I'll do is I'll try to store two values.
Right.
Because we also want the weird and we also want the number of right here, here in this case, you can
see them in your number of rights to how this is a particular order.
Later in this, we can partition people into two right here.
So 0 to 3 is one that is zero two and three that is two plus three plus five.
So I got it perfect.
And here and then we have three and six, which is nine.
So here you can see if I go in these two groups, then in nine, we can we can just reach the top in
just two possibilities in this two particular.
Right.
So that is the optimal order.
Cool.
But how will I know that?
What is the particular meaning number of 80?
So for any of the deep values, I just try to find out that what is the minimum number of right.
I figured out two things, right?
So let's say F of something and let's see G of something.
Because you.
So I would simply say what if something I simply say the minimum rights minimum.
Right.
Minimum rates needed needed to reach.
The top.
With.
As there is, as is the subset of the people rate instead of subsidized interest in zero one, two,
three, four and more this year or something.
I just see what is the minimum weight of the last rate.
See, it's getting tricky rate of the last rate.
That.
Took place, right?
So basically I have two things that I want to find out the minimum number of rights that needed, but
to find out the minimum number of rights that are needed when I'll be performing the dance.
And I also want to find out what was the what was the minimum weight that actually went up.
Right.
So that when I'm trying to add a person to my right, I can easily take that.
Okay, if this was the minimum rate, then this person can be added in the same rate if this was not
the minimum.
But that means if the minimum wage plus whatever the weight of the person that I'm going to add is greater
than X, that means that person has to start with the numerator.
Correct.
So what I can say is.
Yeah.
So let's see, I have this for a particular set s I have this f value and for that particular set for
the particular themes that I have this g value.
Before moving the alleged final words, let's find out what will the values of F of zero.
If this set contains 0% only rate, that means one note would be taken.
And what will be the U of 000 will be nothing but.
The weight that is that was the minimum weight that went up from the last trade.
So of course, Wiggins either only zero weight went up or only 0% went up.
Then that means the weight was too.
Correct.
So, yeah.
Let me shush.
Make some more.
Let's dive deeper into this.
It's an interesting problem.
So we have 0213.
Two, three.
And three, five, four, six, three, five, four, six.
Let's stay a little deeper into this and that.
Then you realize, like, how is the solution?
Or might be working great.
So we know what is effort zero.
We know what is zero zero.
Similarly, we can find out at four one and your find eight or we have over one.
So one will go while taking one.
Right?
Predictable.
It will go up and maturity of one, it will be three.
So I have a quick question for you.
Let's try to combine these elements.
So let's see if I have F of zero, which is one, and I have G of zero, which is two.
That is a minimum with zero to grade.
Now I want I, now I want to find out what is F of zero one.
Correct.
And what is your 018?
So if I want to find out what is F4 zero one, what does it mean?
There are this set of zero and one.
Tell me.
Okay, let me alternate F of one, which is one again.
And what is the of the of when it is three.
The last word that was carried up very not.
Tell me if.
Yeah.
If I want to write naught F of zero one.
That means what is the.
Minimum rate that is used.
If I want to get it.
So what I can do is I can say adder find out the answer for one and and zero two it zero two.
Same rate.
Correct.
Or I can see if I know the answer for one egg.
Zero to New Road.
Correct.
So, for example, for this subset, that is the subset of one, let's say the there was five rates,
right?
In this case, we can easily see it's one night only.
So I have just two options, right?
If I want to add a particular element that is zero.
What are those two options that I have add that include them into the same rate in which the previous
subsequent paid and or exclude them.
Correct.
So when will I include them and when we'll exclude them?
I can simply say if.
G of one Martinsville one the minimum wage that went up when one was going rate when only this particular
set was going in the last three that it took.
Just remember, it's always about the last trip.
Not the total trip, not the total weight, just the last trip.
Right?
So if g of this, the third of which I want the answer for if g of one bless the current rate.
That is the weight of the zeroth element, which is two.
So if you want us to is less than equal to x.
Right.
That means in the previous eight one event, what was the minimum wage for the raid?
Giovanni Giovanni's three.
Correct.
So if three plus two is less, then equals two x, which is ten and we all know it, then I can include
zero into the same rate.
Or what I will do is if this is not true, that means d of one plus two is not is greater than ten.
That means if there's a case when I'm adding a new element to the set and I see that, okay, not this
particular person.
This particular person should go in a new right because.
The last rate went up.
Now, if I'm if I want to add a human to the last rate, it is taking a more.
It is.
The weight of the right is getting more than if the weight of the rate is getting more then x, then
we will simply.
Say that it is a new ride and now the new weight is the weight of this new person that is ready because
now he's going alone.
He's not.
I didn't do the previous rate.
Right.
So, okay, let me analyze it instead of that.
I simply say that f off I have some f office and I have geophys rate to calculate f off as plus a particular
value ex.
That means now in this attack is at this element.
At this point, the Knicks tried to add him into the act.
So there are two options.
First, same X goes in previous raid.
Previous rate.
That means in this case.
The answer will be whatever is f f of x plus this x.
Okay, let me deal with plus x because we will be computing them simultaneously.
So F of x plus this x will be same for face because if he is going in the previous write only that means
the number of right is same and this is only possible if g office plus the current person's weight.
That is weight of x.
Is less xenical strict oral weight which is also so don't get confused.
Instead let me write instead of x.
Let me take by here.
Why is the new person that I want to add into the current state?
Eight So let me advise her.
So y y goods in the previous aid which is only possible if of s that means the last word that went into
the last rate of the same say plus the weight of the current element or the current person is less than
equal to x eight.
So FISA will be this and what will be no.
So d of x plus y will be nothing but.
Geofence because now I'm adding human to the same light.
So it becomes your office plus made of white.
Correct.
And the second possibility is why goes in.
New rate.
New.
And this this will only be true if you can only go into a new rate of if GSP+ weight of VI is greater
than x eight, that means the last rate.
The last rate rate plus the current rate.
The current elements rate of it is greater than ex.
Then that means it cannot go into the current rate.
So efforts will be nothing but efforts plus five, eliminating benefits plus one because he's going
into because now we have a new rate for this new guy and.
What will be your essay?
It will be nothing but a weight off by my weight of I because not this represents the new rate.
Correct.
Displacement means it's a new rate.
It means I'm going in this rate from the elevator again.
And this area only contains five.
Correct to add that the word will be added or the word will be the new word for the new edit.
So I hope you got this recursive relation in the next part.
We'll call it.
So what will be the base case here?
What will be?
F of zero.
And a g of zero.
So we can say above zero is one.
That means if it's empty and we want only the lift to go up without any weight, that means it will
take exactly 188.
So if I add one, that means let's m adding the 0% into the set eight.
So this is not zero.
This is empty fight, right?
So if I'm adding the 0% into the set, that means he will go in one night only because the weight of
five is also zero eight.
But the 0% can be added into this.
Right.
That was going empty right now.
They look good.
So assume the next part and then we'll go this particular problem.